.TH IQRFGD2-TOKENCTL 1 2026-01-28 "IQRF Gateway Daemon Token Control" "IQRF GW Manual"
.SH NAME
iqrfgd2-tokenctl \- manage IQRF Gateway Daemon API tokens
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fBiqrfgd2-tokenctl\fP command allows for managing and listing of API tokens used for WebSocket authentication.
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBiqrfgd2-tokenctl\fP [\fBcommand\fP] [\fIoptions\fP...]
.SH COMMANDS
.nf
.TP
.BR help\fP
Shows the help message and usage.
.TP
.BR list\fP " [\-p, \-\-path <PATH>]"
Outputs a list of API tokens. The output does not contain hashed secret or salt.
.TP
.BR get\fP " [\-i, \-\-id <TOKEN ID>] [\-p, \-\-path <PATH>]"
Outputs a token specified by ID. The output does not contain hashed secret or salt.
.TP
.BR create\fP " [\-o, \-\-owner <OWNER>] [\-e, \-\-expiration <EXPIRATION>] [\-s, \-\-service] [\-p, \-\-path <PATH>]"
Creates a new API token with owner, expiration and optionally permissions for service mode.
If service mode permissions are not desired, the option can simply be omitted.
.TP
.BR rotate\fP " [\-i, \-\-id <TOKEN ID>] [\-p, \-\-path <PATH>]"
Performs a token rotation. Rotating a token means its revocation, and a new token is created to be used instead.
If a token is already expired or revoked, rotation is not performed.
.TP
.BR revoke\fP " [\-i, \-\-id <TOKEN ID>] [\-p, \-\-path <PATH>]"
Revokes a token.
.SH OPTIONS
.nf
.TP
.BR "General options"
.TQ
.BR \-h ", " \-\-help
Shows the help message and usage of a command.
.TP
.BR \-j ", " \-\-json
Format output to stdout as JSON if applicable to the command.
.TP
.BR \-p ", " \-\-path
Specifies path to authentication database file.
.TP
.BR "Command options"
.TQ
.BR \-i ", " \-\-id
Token ID. Integer value coresponding to rowid of record in database.
.TP
.BR \-o ", " \-\-owner
Owner of the token. A string value representing intended user, client or application.
.TP
.BR \-e ", " \-\-expiration
Token expiration. Expiration can either be defined as unix epoch in seconds, or as relative time from the moment of invocation.
The format of relative expiration is defined by time unit and count. The format is \fBcount\fP\funit\fP.
Available units are:
.RS
.IP \[bu] 2
d - day
.IP \[bu] 2
w \- week
.IP \[bu] 2
m \- month
.IP \[bu] 2
y \- year
.TP
.RE
Example relative expiration: 30d \- token expires in 30 days.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
.BR "iqrfgd2-tokenctl list -j -p database.db"
Outputs a list of tokens in database serialized into JSON.
.TP
.BR "iqrfgd2-tokenctl -o user -e 30d -s -p database.db"
Creates a token with owner set as "user", that expires in 30 days and has service mode permissions.
.TP
.BR "iqrfgd2-tokenctl -i 5 rotate -p database.db"
Rotates a token with ID 5.
.SH LICENCE
This program is licensed under Apache License version 2.0.
.SH COPYRIGHT
.nf
Copyright 2015\-2026 IQRF Tech s.r.o.
Copyright 2019\-2026 MICRORISC s.r.o.
.fi
